Add JobSuccessPolicy Doc (#45135)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job.md

to `podReplacementPolicy: Failed`. For more information, see [Pod replacement policy](#pod-replacement-policy).
{{< /note >}}

## Success policy {#success-policy}

{{< feature-state feature_gate_name="JobSuccessPolicy" >}}

{{< note >}}
You can only configure a success policy for an Indexed Job if you have the
`JobSuccessPolicy` [feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/)
enabled in your cluster.
{{< /note >}}

When creating an Indexed Job, you can define when a Job can be declared as succeeded using a `.spec.successPolicy`,
based on the pods that succeeded.

By default, a Job succeeds when the number of succeeded Pods equals `.spec.completions`.
These are some situations where you might want additional control for declaring a Job succeeded:

* When running simulations with different parameters, 
  you might not need all the simulations to succeed for the overall Job to be successful.
* When following a leader-worker pattern, only the success of the leader determines the success or
  failure of a Job. Examples of this are frameworks like MPI and PyTorch etc.

You can configure a success policy, in the `.spec.successPolicy` field,

> to meet the above use cases. This policy can handle Job successes based on the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to meet the above use cases. This policy can handle Job success based on the
```

Author: Done.

succeeded pods. After the Job meet success policy, the job controller terminates the lingering Pods.
A success policy is defined by rules. Each rule can take one of the following forms:

* When you specify the `succeededIndexes` only,

>   once all indexes specified in the `succeededIndexes` succeeded, the Job is marked as succeeded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  once all indexes specified in the `succeededIndexes` succeed, Kubernetes marks the Job as succeeded.
```

Reviewer: or you can say "the job controller" instead of kubernetes.

Author: I prefer to use the `the job controller` because we uses that phrase in other sections as well.

Author: Done.

  The `succeededIndexes` must be a list of intervals between 0 and `.spec.completions-1`.
* When you specify the `succeededCount` only,

>   once the number of succeeded indexes reaches the `succeededCount`, the Job is marked as succeeded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  once the number of succeeded indexes reaches the `succeededCount`, Kubernetes marks the Job as succeeded.
```

Author: Done.

* When you specify both `succeededIndexes` and `succeededCount`,

>   once the number of succeeded indexes specified in the `succeededIndexes` reaches the `succeededCount`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  once the number of succeeded indexes from the subset of indexes specified in the `succeededIndexes` reaches the `succeededCount`,
```

Author: Done.

>   the Job is marked as succeeded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Kuberentes marks the Job as succeeded.
```

Author: Done.

Note that when you specify multiple rules in the `.spec.succeessPolicy.rules`,

> the rules are evaluated in order. Once the Job meets a rule, the remaining rules are ignored.

Reviewer: Change the phrase to active voice: "A does X".

Author: Done,

{{< /note >}}

## Success policy {#success-policy}

{{< feature-state feature_gate_name="JobSuccessPolicy" >}}

{{< note >}}
You can only configure a success policy for an Indexed Job if you have the
`JobSuccessPolicy` [feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/)
enabled in your cluster.
{{< /note >}}

When creating an Indexed Job, you can define when a Job can be declared as succeeded using a `.spec.successPolicy`,
based on the pods that succeeded.

By default, a Job succeeds when the number of succeeded Pods equals `.spec.completions`.
These are some situations where you might want additional control for declaring a Job succeeded:

* When running simulations with different parameters, 
  you might not need all the simulations to succeed for the overall Job to be successful.
* When following a leader-worker pattern, only the success of the leader determines the success or
  failure of a Job. Examples of this are frameworks like MPI and PyTorch etc.

You can configure a success policy, in the `.spec.successPolicy` field,
to meet the above use cases. This policy can handle Job success based on the

> succeeded pods. After the Job meet success policy, the job controller terminates the lingering Pods.

Author: Done.

A success policy is defined by rules. Each rule can take one of the following forms:

* When you specify the `succeededIndexes` only,
  once all indexes specified in the `succeededIndexes` succeed, the job controller marks the Job as succeeded.
  The `succeededIndexes` must be a list of intervals between 0 and `.spec.completions-1`.
* When you specify the `succeededCount` only,
  once the number of succeeded indexes reaches the `succeededCount`, the job controller marks the Job as succeeded.
* When you specify both `succeededIndexes` and `succeededCount`,
  once the number of succeeded indexes from the subset of indexes specified in the `succeededIndexes` reaches the `succeededCount`,
  the job controller marks the Job as succeeded.

Note that when you specify multiple rules in the `.spec.succeessPolicy.rules`,
the job controller evaluates the rules in order. Once the Job meets a rule, the job controller ignores remaining rules.

Here is a manifest for a Job with `successPolicy`:

{{% code_sample file="/controllers/job-success-policy.yaml" %}}

In the example above, the rule of the success policy specifies that
the Job should be marked succeeded and terminate the lingering Pods

> if one of the 0, 2, and 3 indexes succeeded.

Author: Thank you for this great suggestion!

> if one of the 0, 2, and 3 indexes succeeded.

Author: Done.

> The Job that met the success policy gets the `SuccessCriteriaMet` condition. 

Author: Done.

> After the removal of the lingering Pods is issued, the Job gets the `Complete` condition.

Reviewer 2: Could we clarify here? 

The Job is considered complete after the Job Controller removes the lingering pods.

  terminating: 3 # three Pods are terminating and have not yet reached the Failed phase
```

> ### Success policy {#success-policy}

Reviewer 3: IMO this should be closer to the `Pod failure policy` section. Maybe we could add it next to `Completion mode` or `Job termination and cleanup`?

Author: @atiratree I totally agree with you, but `Pod Failure Policy` exists as a sub-topic for the `Handling Pod and container failures`. So, I put this success policy here.

How about renaming `Handling Pod and container failures` to `Handling Pod and container successes and failures` and moving this section into that section?

Reviewer 3: I think the `Handling Pod and container failures` section is quite packed already. A similar section for success/completion might be better. And possibly combine it with `Completion mode`.

It would be good to also gather an opinion on this from others @alculquicondor @soltysh @kannon92 @mimowo

Author: That makes sense. Please let me wait to gather opinions from Job folks.

Reviewer 4: My thoughts:
1. It is Alpha for now so I think "Advanced usage" is the right section.
2. We should not put it under `Handling Pod and container failures`. For one it is packed, second the subject is rather off.
3. I like the idea of "Job success criteria" section, which could wrap both the "Completion mode" and "Success policy".

Author: @mimowo It makes sense. In the alpha stage, keep putting successPolicy in the current section.
So, let me add a comment so that we can remember that we should move the successPolicy section to the "Job success criteria" section in the beta stage.

@atiratree WDYT?

Reviewer 3: I am not sure if it makes sense to reorder the documentation later since we would be changing users' UI. But if you prefer, we can do it postpone it...

Reviewer: Alpha has nothing to do with the "advanced usage" section. It's more about features that first time users shouldn't need. However, we can argue that the current list of features there don't necessarily satisfy this criteria.

That said, I think we can just put this in its own section right before `Job termination and cleanup`

Author: > That said, I think we can just put this in its own section right before Job termination and cleanup

I don't have a strong point of view about places. So, I will put SuccessPolicy section before `Job termination and cleanup`.

Author: Moved this section to before `JOb termination and cleanup`.

> {{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.29" state="alpha" >}}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.30" state="alpha" >}}
```

Reviewer 4: You can also use:
`{{< feature-state feature_gate_name="JobSuccessPolicy" >}}`

which is data-driven. For reference I got similar suggestion:  https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/45506#discussion_r1520622365

Author: Oh, good call :) Thank you!

Author: Done.

{{< note >}}
You can only configure a success policy for an Indexed Job if you have the
`JobSuccessPolicy` [feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/)
enabled in your cluster.
{{< /note >}}

> When you run an indexed Job, a success policy defined with the `spec.successPolicy` field, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you run an Indexed Job, a success policy defined with the `spec.successPolicy` field, 
```

Reviewer: Also, try to be more direct:
When creating an Indexed Job, you can define when a Job can be declared as succeeded using a `successPolicy`, based on the pods that succeeded.

Author: It sounds good to me.

Author: Done.

allows you to define when a Job can be declared as succeeded based on the number of succeeded pods.

In some situations, you may want to have a better control when handling Pod

> successes than the control provided by the `.spec.completins`.

Reviewer: By default, a Job succeeds when the number of succeeded Pods equals `.spec.completions`.
These are some situations where you might want additional control for declaring a Job succeeded:

Author: Thanks!
Done.

There are some examples of use cases:

* To optimize costs of running workloads by avoiding unnecessary Pod running,

>   you can terminate a Job as soon as one of its Pods succeeds.

Reviewer: I don't think the goal is directly to optimize cost. It's all about what the individual pods are doing.

Maybe you can provide a more concrete example:
- When running simulations with different parameters, you might not need all the simulations to succeed for the overall Job to be successful.

Author: That makes sense.
Thanks!

Author: Done.

> * To care only about a leader index in determining the success or failure of a Job
>   in a batch workloads such as MPI and PyTorch etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When following a leader-worker pattern, only the success of the leader determines the success or
  failure of a Job. Examples of this are frameworks like MPI and PyTorch etc.
```

Author: SGTM Thanks!

Done.

You can configure a success policy, in the `.spec.successPolicy` field,
to meet the above use cases. This policy can handle Job successes based on the

> number of succeeded pods. After the Job meet success policy, the lingering Pods
> are terminated by the Job controller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
succeeded pods. After the Job meet success policy, the job controller terminates the lingering Pods.
```

Reviewer 5: (I agree, but for alpha we can live with the text as drafted)

Author: Anyway, I applied Aldo's suggestions.

Done.

> 

Reviewer: Add:

A success policy is defined by rules. Each rule can take one of the following forms:

Author: That makes sense.

Author: Done.

> When you specify the only `.spec.successPolicy.rules[*].succeededIndexes`, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When you specify `.succeededIndexes` only, 
```

Reviewer 5: Is `.succeededIndexes` top level? If not, omit the leading `.`

Author: The `succeededIndexes` is not top level.
So, we can omit it (`.`).

Author: Done.

once all indexes specified in the `succeededIndexes` succeeded, the Job is marked as succeeded. 

> The `succeededIndexes` must be a list within 0 to `.spec.completions-1` and 
> must not contain duplicate indexes. The `succeededIndexes` is represented as intervals separated by a hyphen.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `succeededIndexes` must be a list of intervals between 0 and `.spec.completions-1`.
```

- the duplicates is a detail and is enforced by API validation, so I think we do not have to mention it here
- we mention the intervals by an example just bellow

Author: Done.

The number are listed in represented by the first and last element of the series, separated by a hyphen.
For example, if you want to specify 1, 3, 4, 5 and 7, the `succeededIndexes` is represented as `1,3-5,7`.

When you specify the only `spec.successPolicy.rules[*].succeededCount`,
once the number of succeeded indexes reaches the `succeededCount`, the Job is marked as succeeded.

> When you specify both `succeededIndexes` and `succeededCount`,

Reviewer 3: I wonder if it would be more readable if we made a list of these 3 options?

Author: SGTM

Author: Done.

once the number of succeeded indexes specified in the `succeededIndexes` reaches the `succeededCount`, 
the Job is marked as succeeded.

Note that when you specify multiple rules in the `.spec.succeessPolicy.rules`, 
the rules are evaluated in order. Once the Job meets a rule, the remaining rules are ignored. 

Here is a manifest for a Job with `successPolicy`:

{{% code_sample file="/controllers/job-success-policy-example.yaml" %}}

In the example above, the rule of the success policy specifies that 
the Job should be marked succeeded and terminate the lingering Pods 

> if one of the 0, 1, and 2 indexes succeeded.

Reviewer 3: Can we mention the behavior of `SuccessCriteriaMet` and `Complete` conditions?

Author: That makes sense.

Author: Done.

{{< note >}}
When you specify both a success policy and some terminating policies such as `.spec.backoffLimit` and `.spec.podFailurePolicy`,

> once the Job meets both policies, the terminating policies are respected and a success policy is ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
once the Job meets either policy, the job controller respects the terminating policy and ignores the success policy.
```

Author: SGTM

Done.
